Sigmoid function : used in mapping of classification of data in between 0 and 1. Formula = 1/(1+e^(-z)).
SET 
Jaccard similarity : measures similarity between two sets = (A intersection B)/ (A union B) 

Probability
1.P(A ∩ B) = P(A and B) = P(A) · P(B|A)
Why do we use B|A instead of B? This is because it is possible that B depends on A. If this is the case, then just multiplying P(A) and P(B) does not give us the whole picture.

Random variable
A random variable can have many values, how do we keep track of them all? Each value that a random variable might take on is associated with a percentage. For every value that a random variable might take on, there is a single probability that the variable will be this value. Random variable are represented by the mean value and variance. We can usually say that Random variable have an expected value, give or take the standard deviation.

Type of discrete random variable.
A Binomial random variable represent a single random event happens over and over till a fixed number and we try to count the number of times the result is positive.

A geometric random variable is a discrete random variable, X, that counts the number of trials needed to obtain one success.

A Poisson Random Variable represent a variable for an event that has a small probability of happening and that we wish to count the number of times that the event occurs in a certain time frame. If we have an idea of the average number of occurrences, μ, over a specific period of time, given from past instances, then the Poisson random variable, denoted by X = Poi(μ), counts the total number of occurrences of the event during that given time period.

A continuous random variable can take on an infinite number of possible values, not just a few countable ones. They are defined using probablity density(y axis) over range of possible values.

Statistics

Measuring center of dataset : mean is sensitive to outliers its beneficial to use mean if dataset member are close to each other or variation in dataset is minimum.On the other hand median of sorted dataset is not sensitive to outliers, then its a good measurement of center if your dataset is suffering from outliers. 

The coefficient of variation is defined as the ratio of the data's standard deviation to its mean.We use this measure frequently when attempting to compare means, and it spreads across populations that exist at different scales.

The z-score is a way of telling us how far away a single data value is from the mean.By replacing each value with its z-score is same as original data value. It is a very effective way of normalizing data that exists on very different scales, and also to put data in context of their mean. 


Correlation cofficient between two variable: they might go from linear to polynomial based on level of fitness that can be find out by  mapping different model on testing data. Also it is important to realize that causation is not implied by correlation. The hypothesis relationship between two variable must be tested further.We will need to use more sophisticated statistical methods and machine learning algorithms to solidify these assumptions and hypotheses.

Assumption : Many statistical tests and hypotheses require the underlying data to come from a normally distributed population.

central limit theorem states that the sampling distribution (the distribution of point estimates) will approach a normal distribution as we increase the number of samples taken. A sampling distribution is a distribution of several point estimates.

A confidence interval is a range of values based on a point estimate that contains the true population parameter at some confidence level.A confidence level does not represent a "probability of being correct"; instead, it represents the frequency that the obtained answer will be accurate.

Hypothesis tests' framework to determine whether the observed sample data deviates from what was to be expected from the population itself.A hypothesis test generally looks at two opposing hypotheses about a population. We call them the null hypothesis and the alternative hypothesis. The null hypothesis is the statement being tested and is the default correct answer.The alternative hypothesis is the statement that opposes the null hypothesis. Our test will tell us which hypothesis we should trust and which we should reject.

Graphs : scatter plot :It is made by creating two quantitative axes and using data points to represent observations
Line graph : A line graph simply uses lines to connect data points and usually represents time on the x axis.
Bar chart : It is used when we try to compare some quatitative variable accross different group. Here X-axis does not represent any quatitative variable, it generally represent a category variable. While the y-axis is quantitative.




